doc/modules/dev/pages/contributing.adoc, before:

= Contributing

First of all, thanks for taking the time to contribute! ❤️

All types of contributions are encouraged and valued. See the Table of Contents above for different ways to help and details about how this project handles them. Please make sure to read the relevant section before making your contribution. It will make it a lot easier for us maintainers and smooth out the experience for all involved. The community looks forward to your contributions. 🎉

[NOTE]
====
And if you like the project (one of our repositories), but just don't have time to contribute, that's fine. There are other easy ways to support the project and show your appreciation, which we would also be very happy about:

- Star the project
- Tweet about it
- Refer this project in your project's readme
- Mention the project at local meetups and tell your friends/colleagues
====

== Code of Conduct

These projects and everyone participating in are governed by the
xref:code-of-conduct.adoc[].
By participating, you are expected to uphold this code. Please report unacceptable behavior
through https://green-code-initiative.org[the contact form].

[[question]]
== I Have a Question

[NOTE]
If you want to ask a question, we assume that you have read the available xref:starter-pack.adoc[].

Before you ask a question, it is best to search for existing https://github.com/green-code-initiative/creedengo-common/issues[issues] that might help you (in the right repository).
In case you have found a suitable issue and still need clarification, you can write your question in this issue.
It is also advisable to search the internet for answers first.

If you then still feel the need to ask a question and need clarification, we recommend the following:

. https://github.com/green-code-initiative/creedengo-common/issues/new[Open an issue] in the right repository.
. Provide as much context as you can about what you're running into.
. Provide project and platform versions (nodejs, npm, etc), depending on what seems relevant.

We will then take care of the issue as soon as possible.

== I Want To Contribute

=== Legal Notice

[IMPORTANT]
When contributing to one of our projects, you must agree that you have authored 100% of the content, that you have the necessary rights to the content and that the content you contribute may be provided under the project license.

=== Reporting Bugs

==== Before Submitting a Bug Report

A good bug report shouldn't leave others needing to chase you up for more information.
Therefore, we ask you to investigate carefully, collect information and describe the issue in detail in your report.
Please complete the following steps in advance to help us fix any potential bug as fast as possible.

. Make sure that you are using the latest version.
. Determine if your bug is really a bug and not an error on your side e.g. using incompatible environment components/versions (Make sure that you have read the xref:starter-pack.adoc[]).
If you are looking for support, you might want to check <<question>>).
. To see if other users have experienced (and potentially already solved) the same issue you are having, check if there is not already a bug report existing for your bug or error in the bug tracker.
. Also make sure to search the internet (including Stack Overflow) to see if users outside of the GitHub community have discussed the issue.
. Collect information about the bug:
** Stack trace (Traceback)
** OS, Platform and Version (Windows, Linux, macOS, x86, ARM)
** Version of the interpreter, compiler, SDK, runtime environment, package manager, depending on what seems relevant.
** Possibly your input and the output
** Can you reliably reproduce the issue? And can you also reproduce it with older versions?

==== How Do I Submit a Good Bug Report?

You must never report security related issues, vulnerabilities or bugs including sensitive information to the issue tracker, or elsewhere in public.
Instead sensitive bugs must be sent through the https://green-code-initiative.org[contact form].

We use GitHub issues to track bugs and errors. If you run into an issue with the project:

. Open an Issue (in the right repository).
(Since we can't be sure at this point whether it is a bug or not, we ask you not to talk about a bug yet and not to label the issue.)
. Explain the behavior you would expect and the actual behavior.
. Please provide as much context as possible and describe the *reproduction steps* that someone else can follow to recreate the issue on their own.
This usually includes your code.
For good bug reports you should isolate the problem and create a reduced test case.
. Provide the information you collected in the previous section.

Once it is filled, the project team will label the issue accordingly.
When you create an issue, a template is provided to help you fill it.

=== Suggesting Enhancements

This section guides you through submitting an enhancement suggestion for Creedengo repositories, *including completely new features and minor improvements to existing functionality*.
Following these guidelines will help maintainers and the community to understand your suggestion and find related suggestions.

==== Before Submitting an Enhancement

* Make sure that you are using the latest version.
* Read the xref:starter-pack.adoc[] carefully and find out if the functionality is already covered, maybe by an individual configuration.
* Perform a search in Issue section of the right repository to see if the enhancement has already been suggested.
If it has, add a comment to the existing issue instead of opening a new one.
* Find out whether your idea fits with the scope and aims of the project.
It's up to you to make a strong case to convince the project's developers of the merits of this feature.
Keep in mind that we want features that will be useful to the majority of our users and not just a small subset.
If you're just targeting a minority of users, consider writing an add-on/plugin library.

==== How Do I Submit a Good Enhancement Suggestion?

Enhancement suggestions are tracked as GitHub issues.

* Use a *clear and descriptive title* for the issue to identify the suggestion.
* Provide a *step-by-step description of the suggested enhancement* in as many details as possible.
* *Describe the current behavior* and *explain which behavior you expected to see instead* and why.
At this point you can also tell which alternatives do not work for you.
* You may want to *include screenshots and animated GIFs* which help you demonstrate the steps or point out the part which the suggestion is related to.
You can use https://www.cockos.com/licecap/[this tool] to record GIFs on macOS and Windows, and https://github.com/colinkeenan/silentcast[silentcast] or https://github.com/GNOME/byzanz[byzanz] on Linux.
* *Explain why this enhancement would be useful* to most Creedengo users.
You may also want to point out the other projects that solved it better and which could serve as inspiration.

When you create an issue, a template is provided.

=== How Do I Suggest a New Rule?

. Check if a similar rule already exists (in `RULES.md` or in Sonarqube native rules list).
. If it doesn't exist, create a new issue in `creedengo` repository: choose `new rule template`.
. Fill the template and submit the issue.

=== Your First Code Contribution

Please check xref:starter-pack.adoc[]

=== Improving the Documentation

Please make a Pull Request with modifications.

== Style guides

Please check:

* https://github.com/green-code-initiative/creedengo-common/blob/main/doc/starter-pack.md[Starter pack]
* https://github.com/green-code-initiative/creedengo-common/blob/main/doc/CODE_STYLE.md[Code Style Guide]
* https://github.com/green-code-initiative/creedengo-common/blob/main/doc/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md[Code of conduct]

== Join the Project Team

https://github.com/green-code-initiative/creedengo-rules-specifications#-main-contributors[contributors]

== Attribution

This guide is based on the **contributing-gen**. https://github.com/bttger/contributing-gen[Make your own]!

Commit message:

docs: add creedengo-java to Antora

doc/modules/dev/pages/contributing.adoc, after:

= Contributing

First of all, thanks for taking the time to contribute! ❤️

All types of contributions are encouraged and valued. See the Table of Contents above for different ways to help and details about how this project handles them. Please make sure to read the relevant section before making your contribution. It will make it a lot easier for us maintainers and smooth out the experience for all involved. The community looks forward to your contributions. 🎉

[NOTE]
====
And if you like the project (one of our repositories), but just don't have time to contribute, that's fine. There are other easy ways to support the project and show your appreciation, which we would also be very happy about:

- Star the project
- Tweet about it
- Refer this project in your project's readme
- Mention the project at local meetups and tell your friends/colleagues
====

== Code of Conduct

These projects and everyone participating in are governed by the
xref:creedengo-common::code-of-conduct.adoc[].
By participating, you are expected to uphold this code. Please report unacceptable behavior
through https://green-code-initiative.org[the contact form].

[[question]]
== I Have a Question

[NOTE]
If you want to ask a question, we assume that you have read the available xref:creedengo-common:dev:starter-pack.adoc[].

Before you ask a question, it is best to search for existing https://github.com/green-code-initiative/creedengo-common/issues[issues] that might help you (in the right repository).
In case you have found a suitable issue and still need clarification, you can write your question in this issue.
It is also advisable to search the internet for answers first.

If you then still feel the need to ask a question and need clarification, we recommend the following:

. https://github.com/green-code-initiative/creedengo-common/issues/new[Open an issue] in the right repository.
. Provide as much context as you can about what you're running into.
. Provide project and platform versions (nodejs, npm, etc), depending on what seems relevant.

We will then take care of the issue as soon as possible.

== I Want To Contribute

=== Legal Notice

[IMPORTANT]
When contributing to one of our projects, you must agree that you have authored 100% of the content, that you have the necessary rights to the content and that the content you contribute may be provided under the project license.

=== Reporting Bugs

==== Before Submitting a Bug Report

A good bug report shouldn't leave others needing to chase you up for more information.
Therefore, we ask you to investigate carefully, collect information and describe the issue in detail in your report.
Please complete the following steps in advance to help us fix any potential bug as fast as possible.

. Make sure that you are using the latest version.
. Determine if your bug is really a bug and not an error on your side e.g. using incompatible environment components/versions (Make sure that you have read the xref:creedengo-common:dev:starter-pack.adoc[]).
If you are looking for support, you might want to check <<question>>).
. To see if other users have experienced (and potentially already solved) the same issue you are having, check if there is not already a bug report existing for your bug or error in the bug tracker.
. Also make sure to search the internet (including Stack Overflow) to see if users outside of the GitHub community have discussed the issue.
. Collect information about the bug:
** Stack trace (Traceback)
** OS, Platform and Version (Windows, Linux, macOS, x86, ARM)
** Version of the interpreter, compiler, SDK, runtime environment, package manager, depending on what seems relevant.
** Possibly your input and the output
** Can you reliably reproduce the issue? And can you also reproduce it with older versions?

==== How Do I Submit a Good Bug Report?

You must never report security related issues, vulnerabilities or bugs including sensitive information to the issue tracker, or elsewhere in public.
Instead sensitive bugs must be sent through the https://green-code-initiative.org[contact form].

We use GitHub issues to track bugs and errors. If you run into an issue with the project:

. Open an Issue (in the right repository).
(Since we can't be sure at this point whether it is a bug or not, we ask you not to talk about a bug yet and not to label the issue.)
. Explain the behavior you would expect and the actual behavior.
. Please provide as much context as possible and describe the *reproduction steps* that someone else can follow to recreate the issue on their own.
This usually includes your code.
For good bug reports you should isolate the problem and create a reduced test case.
. Provide the information you collected in the previous section.

Once it is filled, the project team will label the issue accordingly.
When you create an issue, a template is provided to help you fill it.

=== Suggesting Enhancements

This section guides you through submitting an enhancement suggestion for Creedengo repositories, *including completely new features and minor improvements to existing functionality*.
Following these guidelines will help maintainers and the community to understand your suggestion and find related suggestions.

==== Before Submitting an Enhancement

* Make sure that you are using the latest version.
* Read the xref:creedengo-common:dev:starter-pack.adoc[] carefully and find out if the functionality is already covered, maybe by an individual configuration.
* Perform a search in Issue section of the right repository to see if the enhancement has already been suggested.
If it has, add a comment to the existing issue instead of opening a new one.
* Find out whether your idea fits with the scope and aims of the project.
It's up to you to make a strong case to convince the project's developers of the merits of this feature.
Keep in mind that we want features that will be useful to the majority of our users and not just a small subset.
If you're just targeting a minority of users, consider writing an add-on/plugin library.

==== How Do I Submit a Good Enhancement Suggestion?

Enhancement suggestions are tracked as GitHub issues.

* Use a *clear and descriptive title* for the issue to identify the suggestion.
* Provide a *step-by-step description of the suggested enhancement* in as many details as possible.
* *Describe the current behavior* and *explain which behavior you expected to see instead* and why.
At this point you can also tell which alternatives do not work for you.
* You may want to *include screenshots and animated GIFs* which help you demonstrate the steps or point out the part which the suggestion is related to.
You can use https://www.cockos.com/licecap/[this tool] to record GIFs on macOS and Windows, and https://github.com/colinkeenan/silentcast[silentcast] or https://github.com/GNOME/byzanz[byzanz] on Linux.
* *Explain why this enhancement would be useful* to most Creedengo users.
You may also want to point out the other projects that solved it better and which could serve as inspiration.

When you create an issue, a template is provided.

=== How Do I Suggest a New Rule?

. Check if a similar rule already exists (in `rules.adoc` or in Sonarqube native rules list).
. If it doesn't exist, create a new issue in `creedengo` repository: choose `new rule template`.
. Fill the template and submit the issue.

=== Your First Code Contribution

Please check xref:creedengo-common:dev:starter-pack.adoc[]

=== Improving the Documentation

Please make a Pull Request with modifications.

== Style guides

Please check:

* https://github.com/green-code-initiative/creedengo-common/blob/main/doc/starter-pack.md[Starter pack]
* https://github.com/green-code-initiative/creedengo-common/blob/main/doc/CODE_STYLE.md[Code Style Guide]
* https://github.com/green-code-initiative/creedengo-common/blob/main/doc/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md[Code of conduct]

== Join the Project Team

https://github.com/green-code-initiative/creedengo-rules-specifications#-main-contributors[contributors]

== Attribution

This guide is based on the **contributing-gen**. https://github.com/bttger/contributing-gen[Make your own]!
